# Food-Collection-Mobile-Application
A study by Food Ministry, Government of India found that about 20% of food at social events such as weddings goes waste. Food waste also occurs at parties, functions and restaurants. This is a sad state of affairs when one considers that two lakh street children in Mumbai go to sleep hungry every day. Therefore, leftover food donation is the need of the hour to counter both malnutrition and food waste!
# Leftover food collection helps to feed the poor…
Food banks and food collection NGOs have geared up to tackle the food waste challenge in India’s major cities. They have set up waste leftover food helplines so that restaurants, caterers, wedding venues and party organizers who intimate availability of food for donation.
Often such intimation is given at a late hour and pick up time is also late i.e. after midnight. Despite these hurdles, these food banks and food collection NGOs arrive at the venue, pack the food in containers and transport it in vehicles arranged by them.
If the outfit has cold storage facilities, food is stored and distributed in a day or two. However most of the time, distribution is done to feed the poor within a few hours after the food is collected, keeping in view the fact that food goes stale soon in India's hot climate. In some cities, food for the poor is distributed at some fixed point where the homeless, slum-dwellers and needy congregate.
Many orphanages, children’s homes and other NGO organizations do not have facilities to undertake leftover food collection. They will be happy to accept the food if it is delivered at their location.
